Style Guide
===========

In PHH files, the fields may be in any order, and the formatting may follow any style, as long as it conforms to the `TOML <https://toml.io/>`_ syntax. However, the annotator is encouraged to list all required fields first before listing the optional fields and enclose the equal signs ``=`` for each key/value assignment with a single space character `` `` on both sides to enhance readability.

When naming the user-defined fields, users should use the "snake_case" naming convention where words are written in lowercase characters, separated by an underscore as in the required and optional fields to maintain consistency. In addition, the names of the user-defined fields should start with a single underscore to avoid conflicts with the future version of the specification.

The PHH files should have a ``.phh`` filename extension. As for the file naming conventions of standalone hands, we suggest including the last names of the relevant involved players in lowercase characters, with the last names sorted in alphabetical order, each separated by a single dash ``-`` character, followed by the year the hand took place. For example, the file containing the hand by players named John Smith and Jane Doe played in 2012 can be named ``smith-doe-2012.phh``. As for a bulk of hands for a particular event, the PHH files should all be placed in a folder or nested folders. For an event like `2023 WSOP Event #43: $50,000 PPC -- Day 5 <https://www.pokernews.com/news/2023/06/brian-rast-wins-ppc-for-third-time-43877.htm>`_, we suggest ``wsop/2023/43/5`` as the nested folders' name. For filenames of the files in such folders, we suggest simply using its hand number like ``10.phh`` for Hand 10 when there is only one table (final table in this case), or using both the hand number and the table number as in ``6-51.phh`` for Hand 51 in Table 6. These naming conventions are followed in the supplementary PHH files.
